Development guidelines
If you're going to be using Script Helper there are a few things things you should consider and be aware of. This should be something your entire team is involved with and agrees to. It will require cooperation from everybody.
Rules
	Never change a script once it is in source control
		Once a script is in source control anybody can get it and run it. That script will never be run on any of those databases again. If you change it, those changes will not make it to those databases. If you need to undo a change in a script, write another script to do it (as long as this doesn't cause some data loss of course). There are exceptions to this rule, and as long as you understand the positional for problems you should be able to recognize them when you find them. So I shouldn't have to list them all here. But here are some examples.
			You are absolutely sure nobody has or will run the script without these changes. If you are working on a private branch for example.
			There is a bug in the script that results in an error. If it doesn't work, then nobody has run it. So it's ok to change.
	Never rename or move a script. It will be seen as a new script and be run again. I'm not aware of any exceptions to this rule.
Suggestions
	Always write scripts right away and check in with code changes that need it. If you check in code changes without the required scripts it may break the development environment of others on your team. Be courteous.
	Create a new folder each month for new scripts. If you put scripts into 1 folder it will get to be quite big. Because you can never move scripts they will be stuck there forever. I recommend using the format [Year][Month]. For example January 2011 would be 201101. This will make them sort correctly and be easy to search.
	Have each developer run there own database. This makes it a lot easier to keep off each others toes.
	Create a new database for every branch of code that you work on. The goal here is to treat your database just like code.

Some questions and objections you might have
	Won't it take a long time to run all those scripts?
		I don't know your database, but the answer is probably no. First of all if you're upgrading a database only the new scripts will be run, but even creating a new database and running every script will likely be much faster then you think. I'm work on a project that has 4 years of scripts built up and a new database can be created in a few seconds.
	Script helper doesn't fit my situation
		I've purposely made Script Helper very flexible. More flexible then this text gives it credit for. If there's something missing that you need, contact me and I'll see what I can. I want to make sure Script Helper works for everybody.
	I want to be able to rename and move scripts
		Sorry. Seriously though, if you really need this contact me.
	I don't want to write all those scripts
		I really recommend that you do. You probably already have a database. There are tools out there that will create all the scripts for you to start with. Writing new scripts for future changes is not as big of a task as you might think. If you don't have a database change plan that can be automated, you probably don't know what you're missing. Just give it a try.